+++
title = "Treatment at high‐volume facilities and academic centers is independently associated with improved survival in patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer"
date = "2017-10-15"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ['John M David', 'Allen S Ho', 'Michael Luu', 'Emi J Yoshida', 'Sungjin Kim', 'Alain C Mita', 'Kevin S Scher', 'Stephen L Shiao', 'Mourad Tighiouart', 'Zachary S Zumsteg']

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *CANCER*"
publication_short = "In *CANCER*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
# abstract = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
# projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = "#"
# url_preprint = "#"
# url_code = "#"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "View", url = "https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/cncr.30843"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
# [header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

# Abstract

## BACKGROUND
The treatment of head and neck cancers is complex and associated with significant morbidity, requiring multidisciplinary care and physician expertise. Thus, facility characteristics, such as clinical volume and academic status, may influence outcomes.

## METHODS
The current study included 46,567 patients taken from the National Cancer Data Base who were diagnosed with locally advanced invasive squamous cell carcinomas of the oropharynx, larynx, and hypopharynx and were undergoing definitive radiotherapy. High‐volume facilities (HVFs) were defined as the top 1% of centers by the number of patients treated from 2004 through 2012. Multivariable Cox regression and propensity score matching were performed to account for imbalances in covariates.

## RESULTS
The median follow‐up was 55.1 months. Treatment at a HVF (hazard ratio, 0.798; 95% confidence interval, 0.753‐0.845 [P<.001]) and treatment at an academic facility (hazard ratio, 0.897; 95% confidence interval, 0.871‐0.923 [P<.001]) were found to be independently associated with improved overall survival in multivariable analysis. In propensity score‐matched cohorts, the 5‐year overall survival rate was 61.6% versus 55.5% for patients treated at an HVF versus lower‐volume facilities, respectively (P<.001). Similarly, the 5‐year overall survival rate was 52.3% versus 49.7% for patients treated at academic versus nonacademic facilities (P<.001). Analysis of facility volume as a continuous variable demonstrated continual improvement in survival with an increased number of patients treated. The impact of facility volume and academic designation on survival was observed when using a variety of thresholds to define HVF, and across the vast majority of subgroups, including both oropharyngeal and nonoropharyngeal subsites.

## CONCLUSIONS
Patients with locally advanced head and neck squamous cell carcinoma who are undergoing curative radiotherapy at HVFs and academic centers appear to have improved survival.
