+++
title = "Postoperative chemoradiotherapy in patients with head and neck cancer aged 70 or older with positive margins or extranodal extension and the influence of nodal classification"
date = "2018-02-08"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ['Emi J Yoshida', 'Michael Luu', 'John M David', 'Sungjin Kim', 'Alain Mita', 'Kevin Scher', 'Stephen L Shiao', 'Mourad Tighiouart', 'Allen S Ho', 'Zachary S Zumsteg']

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *Head & neck*"
publication_short = "In *Head & neck*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
# abstract = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
# projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = "#"
# url_preprint = "#"
# url_code = "#"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "View", url = "https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1002/hed.25100"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
# [header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

# Abstract

## Background
Postoperative concomitant chemoradiotherapy (CRT) improves outcomes for younger adults with head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) and positive margins or extranodal extension (ENE), but its benefit for older adults is not well established.

## Methods
Patients from the National Cancer Data Base (NCDB) with HNSCC undergoing curative‐intent resection, neck dissection, and postoperative radiation with positive margins or ENE were identified.

## Results
This analysis included 1199 patients aged ≥ 70 years with median follow‐up of 42.6 months. Postoperative concurrent CRT was associated with improved overall survival (OS; hazard ratio [HR] 0.752; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.638‐0.886) compared to radiation alone in multivariable analysis. Three‐year OS was 52.4% with CRT versus 43.4% with radiation (P = .012) in propensity‐score matched cohorts. The survival impact of CRT varied by N classification (P = .002 for interaction), with benefit seen only in those with N2 to N3 disease.

## Conclusion
Postoperative concurrent CRT may benefit older patients with HNSCC with positive margins or ENE, particularly those with higher nodal burden.