+++
title = "Combined high‐intensity local treatment and systemic therapy in metastatic head and neck squamous cell carcinoma: An analysis of the National Cancer Data Base"
date = "2017-12-01"

# Authors. Comma separated list, e.g. `["Bob Smith", "David Jones"]`.
authors = ['Zachary S Zumsteg', 'Michael Luu', 'Emi J Yoshida', 'Sungjin Kim', 'Mourad Tighiouart', 'John M David', 'Stephen L Shiao', 'Alain C Mita', 'Kevin S Scher', 'Eric J Sherman', 'Nancy Y Lee', 'Allen S Ho']

# Publication type.
# Legend:
# 0 = Uncategorized
# 1 = Conference proceedings
# 2 = Journal
# 3 = Work in progress
# 4 = Technical report
# 5 = Book
# 6 = Book chapter
publication_types = ["2"]

# Publication name and optional abbreviated version.
publication = "In *International Journal of Radiation Oncology• Biology• Physics*"
publication_short = "In *International Journal of Radiation Oncology• Biology• Physics*"

# Abstract and optional shortened version.
# abstract = ""

# Featured image thumbnail (optional)
image_preview = ""

# Is this a selected publication? (true/false)
selected = false

# Projects (optional).
#   Associate this publication with one or more of your projects.
#   Simply enter the filename (excluding '.md') of your project file in `content/project/`.
# projects = ["example-external-project"]

# Links (optional).
# url_pdf = "#"
# url_preprint = "#"
# url_code = "#"
# url_dataset = "#"
# url_project = "#"
# url_slides = "#"
# url_video = "#"
# url_poster = "#"
# url_source = "#"

# Custom links (optional).
#   Uncomment line below to enable. For multiple links, use the form `[{...}, {...}, {...}]`.
url_custom = [{name = "View", url = "https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1002/cncr.30933"}]

# Does the content use math formatting?
math = true

# Does the content use source code highlighting?
highlight = false

# Featured image
# Place your image in the `static/img/` folder and reference its filename below, e.g. `image = "example.jpg"`.
# [header]
# image = "headers/bubbles-wide.jpg"
# caption = "My caption :smile:"

+++

# Abstract

## BACKGROUND
There is increasing evidence that primary tumor ablation can improve survival for some cancer patients with distant metastases. This may be particularly applicable to head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) because of its tropism for locoregional progression.

## METHODS
This study included patients with metastatic HNSCC undergoing systemic therapy identified in the National Cancer Data Base. High‐intensity local treatment was defined as radiation doses ≥ 60 Gy or oncologic resection of the primary tumor. Multivariate Cox regression, propensity score matching, landmark analysis, and subgroup analysis were performed to account for imbalances in covariates, including adjustments for the number and location of metastatic sites in the subset of patients with this information available.

## RESULTS
In all, 3269 patients were included (median follow‐up, 51.5 months). Patients undergoing systemic therapy with local treatment had improved survival in comparison with patients receiving systemic therapy alone in propensity score–matched cohorts (2‐year overall survival, 34.2% vs 20.6%; P < .001). Improved survival was associated only with patients receiving high‐intensity local treatment, whereas those receiving lower‐intensity local treatment had survival similar to that of patients receiving systemic therapy without local treatment. The impact of high‐intensity local therapy was time‐dependent, with a stronger impact within the first 6 months after the diagnosis (adjusted hazard ratio [AHR], 0.255; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.210‐0.309; P < .001) in comparison with more than 6 months after the diagnosis (AHR, 0.622; 95% CI, 0.561‐0.689; P < .001) in the multivariate analysis. A benefit was seen in all subgroups, in landmark analyses of 1‐, 2‐, and 3‐year survivors, and when adjusting for the number and location of metastatic sites.

## CONCLUSIONS
Aggressive local treatment warrants prospective evaluation for select patients with metastatic HNSCC.